Andrew J. Yu, MD, FIPP earned his Bachelor of Science at the University of Cincinnati. He received his Medical Degree from Wright State University, Dayton, Ohio. His Internship was completed at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles, and he was selected Chief Resident at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Yu is Board Certified in Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation and has earned added Board qualifications in Pain Medicine and Electrodiagnostic Medicine. There are less than 50 Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Doctors in Illinois Board Certified in Pain Medicine. There are approximately 150 physicians Board Certified in Electrodiagnostic Medicine in Illinois.

Dr. Yu has reached a Fellow of Interventional Pain Physician (F.I.P.P.) distinction. This additional qualification can be reached only after initial board certifications in Pain Medicine and Physician Medicine & Rehabilitation or Anesthesiology. A unique part of this certification is it evaluates a doctor's procedural skills in addition to the written portion of the exam.

Prior to starting Elite Pain Medical Group, Dr. Yu was at Illinois Pain Institute located in Barrington, IL. He was part of a 6 physician pain group, and was affiliated with 7 hospitals in the Northwest suburbs of Chicago. 

He is an active member of the Spine Intervention Society : he serves on the Health Policy Division of the Spine Intervention Society and was the Alternate Delegate to the American Medical Association. He also was a member of the Board at the McHenry County Medical Society and served as a Delegate at the Annual Meeting and House of Delegates at the Illinois State Medical Society.
